README.md, before:

# Linux Render Farm Setup Guide

A practical guide for setting up and managing a Linux-based render farm, primarily documented from personal implementation. While originally configured for use with Volvoxlabs's infrastructure, this documentation can be adapted for different environments. The examples use specific network paths and studio configurations which should be modified according to your setup. This guide assumes basic familiarity with Linux systems and render farm concepts.

> **Note:** Path examples and certain configurations reference personal/studio-specific setups and should be adjusted for your environment.


## 1. Mount NAS Folder

In Linux, accessing the NAS is handled differently compared to Windows. While Windows can connect directly using paths like `\\VVOX-NAS-1\PROJECTS`, Linux requires the NAS folder to be mounted as a local directory, typically under `/mnt`. This allows applications like Houdini and Deadline to interact with the NAS as if it were a local folder, ensuring smooth and consistent access.

**Note:**  
To maintain cross-platform compatibility, use paths that work on both Windows and Linux. Consider environment variables like `$HIP` or custom variables pointing to asset folders. For Deadline and HQueue, set appropriate path mappings.

### Temporally Mount a NAS Folder:
#### 1. Creating a Mount Point:
To set up a directory for mounting, use:
```
sudo mkdir -p /mnt/VVOX-NAS-1/your_folder_name
```
For example:
```
sudo mkdir -p /mnt/VVOX-NAS-1/projects
sudo mkdir -p /mnt/VVOX-NAS-1/deadline-repo
```
_Note:_ Verify the ownership of the folder. If needed, adjust it using:
```
sudo chown yourusername:yourusername /mnt/VVOX-NAS-1/your_folder_name
```
#### 2. Mount a Folder 
Use the following command to mount a folder with your NAS credentials:
```
sudo mount -t cifs -o username=boning,password=follow-HARD-pair-short-2,uid=1000,gid=1000,dir_mode=0777,file_mode=0777,vers=3.0 //10.0.10.11/PROJECTS /mnt/VVOX-NAS-1/projects
sudo mount -t cifs -o username=boning,password=follow-HARD-pair-short-2,uid=1000,gid=1000,dir_mode=0777,file_mode=0777,vers=3.0 //10.0.10.11/deadline10-repo /mnt/VVOX-NAS-1/deadline-repo
``` 
**Note:**
`10.0.10.11` is the IP address of VVOX-NAS-1. For unknown reason the `VVOX-NAS-1.local` sometimes having resolving issue on one of the machine, even after `sudo nano /etc/hosts` and add line `10.0.10.11 VVOX-NAS-1.local`
I've constantly met permission issue with NFS mounting so I switched to SMB.

### Automatically Mount at Startup:   
#### 1. Edit the /etc/fstab File
To set up automatic mounting on startup, edit the `/etc/fstab` file
```
sudo nano /etc/fstab
```
#### 2.  Add the Mount Entries
Append the following line:
```
//10.0.10.11/PROJECTS /mnt/VVOX-NAS-1/projects cifs username=boning,password=follow-HARD-pair-short-2,uid=1000,gid=1000,dir_mode=0755,file_mode=0755 0 0
//10.0.10.11/deadline10-repo /mnt/VVOX-NAS-1/deadline-repo cifs username=boning,password=follow-HARD-pair-short-2,uid=1000,gid=1000,dir_mode=0755,file_mode=0755 0 0
```
#### 3. Test the Configuration
To verify the settings, run:
```
sudo systemctl daemon-reload
sudo mount -a
```


---

## 2. Packages to Install

```
sudo apt install flatpak timeshift vlc imagemagick
sudo snap install mission-center
sudo snap install nmap
```

---

## 3. Houdini
#### Dependencies:
Linux package requirements for Houdini 20.5:

https://www.sidefx.com/Support/system-requirements/linux-package-requirements-for-houdini-205/

```
sudo dnf install alsa-lib compat-openssl11 dbus-libs expat fontconfig glibc libatomic libevent libglvnd-glx libglvnd-opengl libICE libSM libX11 libX11-xcb libxcb libXcomposite libXcursor libXdamage libXext libXfixes libXi libxkbcommon libxkbcommon-x11 libXrandr libXrender libXScrnSaver libXt libXtst libzstd nspr nss nss-util openldap pciutils-libs tbb xcb-util xcb-util-image xcb-util-keysyms xcb-util-renderutil xcb-util-wm zlib 
```
#### Installing HQueue Client
Current HQueue server and port is : http://10.0.10.203:5000 (Box-1) 
#### Environment Variables:
For complete environment variable list: https://www.sidefx.com/docs/houdini/ref/env.html

**Deadline needs these lines to work (Only on Linux):**
```
DEADLINE_PATH="/opt/Thinkbox/Deadline10/bin"
PATH=$PATH:$DEADLINE_PATH
```
**To set a directory as global attribute:**

**Linux:**
```
ASSETS="/mnt/VVOX-NAS-1/projects/_____ASSETS"
```
**Windows**
```
ASSETS="//Vvox-nas-1/projects/_____ASSETS"
```

*Note:* For daily-build after 20.5.395, there's an internel environment variable to disable the CUDA pin host memory feature. This feature will likely to cause the multi-gpu machine fail on allocating the host memory when rendering high resolution image.

**Recommand to have this set for multi-gpu machine.**
```
KARMA_XPU_OPTIX_DISABLE_HOST_PINNED = 1
```
**Other useful environment variables:**
```
#Disable CPU for XPU
#KARMA_XPU_DISABLE_EMBREE_DEVICE=1 #traditional method
KARMA_XPU_DEVICE = optix #new method, introduced in 20.5.394


#Disable Specific GPU for XPU 
KARMA_XPU_DISABLE_DEVICE_n=1

#Optimize Multi-GPU Performance
KARMA_XPU_NUM_PER_DEVICE_BLENDING_THREADS = 4

#Use Box1 as HQueue Server
HOUDINI_HQUEUE_SERVER = http://10.0.10.203:5000/ 
```


---

## 4. Troubleshooting Deadline Issues

1. **Problem:** Deadline Monitor or Worker Fails to Start
    - **Possible Cause:** `deadline-repo` may not be mounted correctly.
    - **Solution:** Verify that `deadline-repo` is mounted at `/mnt/VVOX-NAS-1/deadline-repo`. Remount if necessary.
2. **Problem:** Incorrect Path Mapping Between Windows and Linux
    - **Cause:** Mapped Paths in `Configure Repository Options` are not set up correctly.
    - **Solution:** Ensure the following mapping is configured:
        - From `\\vvox-nas-1\projects\` ➜ To `/mnt/VVOX-NAS-1/projects/`
        - _Note:_ Changes may take a few minutes to take effect.
3. **Problem:** Worker Displays as "Stalled"
    - **Possible Causes:**
        - Worker process is not running.
        - System issues causing the worker to stop unexpectedly.
    - **Solutions:**
        - Log in to the machine to check if the worker is active. Manually start it if needed.
        - If the worker fails to launch, try restarting the system and check again.

Commit message:

Added solution for Houdini crash on Fedora 41

README.md, after:

# Linux Render Farm Setup Guide

A practical guide for setting up and managing a Linux-based render farm, primarily documented from personal implementation. While originally configured for use with Volvoxlabs's infrastructure, this documentation can be adapted for different environments. The examples use specific network paths and studio configurations which should be modified according to your setup. This guide assumes basic familiarity with Linux systems and render farm concepts.

> **Note:** Path examples and certain configurations reference personal/studio-specific setups and should be adjusted for your environment.


## 1. Mount NAS Folder

In Linux, accessing the NAS is handled differently compared to Windows. While Windows can connect directly using paths like `\\VVOX-NAS-1\PROJECTS`, Linux requires the NAS folder to be mounted as a local directory, typically under `/mnt`. This allows applications like Houdini and Deadline to interact with the NAS as if it were a local folder, ensuring smooth and consistent access.

**Note:**  
To maintain cross-platform compatibility, use paths that work on both Windows and Linux. Consider environment variables like `$HIP` or custom variables pointing to asset folders. For Deadline and HQueue, set appropriate path mappings.

### Temporally Mount a NAS Folder:
#### 1. Creating a Mount Point:
To set up a directory for mounting, use:
```
sudo mkdir -p /mnt/VVOX-NAS-1/your_folder_name
```
For example:
```
sudo mkdir -p /mnt/VVOX-NAS-1/projects
sudo mkdir -p /mnt/VVOX-NAS-1/deadline-repo
```
_Note:_ Verify the ownership of the folder. If needed, adjust it using:
```
sudo chown yourusername:yourusername /mnt/VVOX-NAS-1/your_folder_name
```
#### 2. Mount a Folder 
Use the following command to mount a folder with your NAS credentials:
```
sudo mount -t cifs -o username=boning,password=follow-HARD-pair-short-2,uid=1000,gid=1000,dir_mode=0777,file_mode=0777,vers=3.0 //10.0.10.11/PROJECTS /mnt/VVOX-NAS-1/projects
sudo mount -t cifs -o username=boning,password=follow-HARD-pair-short-2,uid=1000,gid=1000,dir_mode=0777,file_mode=0777,vers=3.0 //10.0.10.11/deadline10-repo /mnt/VVOX-NAS-1/deadline-repo
``` 
**Note:**
`10.0.10.11` is the IP address of VVOX-NAS-1. For unknown reason the `VVOX-NAS-1.local` sometimes having resolving issue on one of the machine, even after `sudo nano /etc/hosts` and add line `10.0.10.11 VVOX-NAS-1.local`
I've constantly met permission issue with NFS mounting so I switched to SMB.

### Automatically Mount at Startup:   
#### 1. Edit the /etc/fstab File
To set up automatic mounting on startup, edit the `/etc/fstab` file
```
sudo nano /etc/fstab
```
#### 2.  Add the Mount Entries
Append the following line:
```
//10.0.10.11/PROJECTS /mnt/VVOX-NAS-1/projects cifs username=boning,password=follow-HARD-pair-short-2,uid=1000,gid=1000,dir_mode=0755,file_mode=0755 0 0
//10.0.10.11/deadline10-repo /mnt/VVOX-NAS-1/deadline-repo cifs username=boning,password=follow-HARD-pair-short-2,uid=1000,gid=1000,dir_mode=0755,file_mode=0755 0 0
```
#### 3. Test the Configuration
To verify the settings, run:
```
sudo systemctl daemon-reload
sudo mount -a
```


---

## 2. Packages to Install

```
sudo apt install flatpak timeshift vlc imagemagick
sudo snap install mission-center
sudo snap install nmap
```

#### To solve Houdini crash on Fedora 41:

```
sudo dnf install gnome-session-xsession
```
Then restart and choose the Xorg version of Gnome on the login screen.

---

## 3. Houdini
#### Dependencies:
Linux package requirements for Houdini 20.5:

https://www.sidefx.com/Support/system-requirements/linux-package-requirements-for-houdini-205/

```
sudo dnf install alsa-lib compat-openssl11 dbus-libs expat fontconfig glibc libatomic libevent libglvnd-glx libglvnd-opengl libICE libSM libX11 libX11-xcb libxcb libXcomposite libXcursor libXdamage libXext libXfixes libXi libxkbcommon libxkbcommon-x11 libXrandr libXrender libXScrnSaver libXt libXtst libzstd nspr nss nss-util openldap pciutils-libs tbb xcb-util xcb-util-image xcb-util-keysyms xcb-util-renderutil xcb-util-wm zlib 
```
#### Installing HQueue Client
Current HQueue server and port is : http://10.0.10.203:5000 (Box-1) 
#### Environment Variables:
For complete environment variable list: https://www.sidefx.com/docs/houdini/ref/env.html

**Deadline needs these lines to work (Only on Linux):**
```
DEADLINE_PATH="/opt/Thinkbox/Deadline10/bin"
PATH=$PATH:$DEADLINE_PATH
```
**To set a directory as global attribute:**

**Linux:**
```
ASSETS="/mnt/VVOX-NAS-1/projects/_____ASSETS"
```
**Windows**
```
ASSETS="//Vvox-nas-1/projects/_____ASSETS"
```

*Note:* For daily-build after 20.5.395, there's an internel environment variable to disable the CUDA pin host memory feature. This feature will likely to cause the multi-gpu machine fail on allocating the host memory when rendering high resolution image.

**For multi-gpu machine failed on render high-res image**
```
KARMA_XPU_OPTIX_DISABLE_HOST_PINNED = 1
```
**Other useful environment variables:**
```
#Disable CPU for XPU
#KARMA_XPU_DISABLE_EMBREE_DEVICE=1 #traditional method
KARMA_XPU_DEVICE = optix #new method, introduced in 20.5.394


#Disable Specific GPU for XPU 
KARMA_XPU_DISABLE_DEVICE_n=1

#Optimize Multi-GPU Performance
KARMA_XPU_NUM_PER_DEVICE_BLENDING_THREADS = 4

#Use Box1 as HQueue Server
HOUDINI_HQUEUE_SERVER = http://10.0.10.203:5000/ 
```


---

## 4. Troubleshooting Deadline Issues

1. **Problem:** Deadline Monitor or Worker Fails to Start
    - **Possible Cause:** `deadline-repo` may not be mounted correctly.
    - **Solution:** Verify that `deadline-repo` is mounted at `/mnt/VVOX-NAS-1/deadline-repo`. Remount if necessary.
2. **Problem:** Incorrect Path Mapping Between Windows and Linux
    - **Cause:** Mapped Paths in `Configure Repository Options` are not set up correctly.
    - **Solution:** Ensure the following mapping is configured:
        - From `\\vvox-nas-1\projects\` ➜ To `/mnt/VVOX-NAS-1/projects/`
        - _Note:_ Changes may take a few minutes to take effect.
3. **Problem:** Worker Displays as "Stalled"
    - **Possible Causes:**
        - Worker process is not running.
        - System issues causing the worker to stop unexpectedly.
    - **Solutions:**
        - Log in to the machine to check if the worker is active. Manually start it if needed.
        - If the worker fails to launch, try restarting the system and check again.
